




= SugarCube =



[SugarCube http://www.motoslave.net/sugarcube/] is a free (gratis and libre) header for [Twine/Twee http://twinery.org/], based on [TiddlyWiki http://tiddlywiki.com/].

Downloads and documentation can be found at [SugarCube's website http://www.motoslave.net/sugarcube/].




== Feature Highlights ==



 - Semantic HTML5 (for the most part, anyway).
 - Two primary modes of operation: History mode, which is the default, and Hash Tag mode.
  - **History mode:** Works with the browser's history, so no more ever growing hash tag (fragment ID), and has fully persistent state within a story, even over page reloads. (n.b. There are actually two, functionally equivalent, History modes: Window History mode, for most browsers, and Session History mode, especially for Firefox.)
  - **Hash Tag mode:** The traditional Twine/Twee header mode, which is included largely for compatibility, but authors can choose to force its use over the Window/Session History modes if they desire.
 - The ability to easily save your progress, at any point, and revisit it at any time.
 - A completely author configurable Share menu, via the ``MenuShare`` passage.
 - Persistent end-user options, via the ``options`` variable, the ``MenuOptions`` passage, and the options macros.
 - Twine/Twee tags as classes, on the active passage's container element and the page's ``&lt;body&gt;`` element, for styling.
 - Widget macros. Widgets allow you to create macros by using the standard macros and wiki text that you use normally within your story, so all Twine/Twee authors can now create simple macros regardless of technical aptitude.
 - Supports the backslash (``\``) as a line continuation character. This is mostly useful for controlling whitespace when you want to wrap lines for readability, but not generate extra whitespace upon display, and the ``&lt;&lt;silently&gt;&gt;`` macro isn't an option because you need to generate output. (similar to [escape line breaks with backslashes http://www.glorioustrainwrecks.com/node/5400], but built in)
 - Supports inserting HTML directly into passage text, without needing to use the ``&lt;html&gt;`` formatter (though it still works too).
 - Supports the current set of TiddlyWiki markup (e.g. adds ``&lt;nowiki&gt;…&lt;/nowiki&gt;`` &amp; table caption markup).
 - Supports the use of $variables in both the wiki link and image markup syntaxes (e.g. `[[$goThere]]``&amp;``[img[$someImgSrc]]`).
 - Embeds the jQuery library (2.x series).




== Requirements ==



SugarCube's sole requirement is a modern web browser, and by //modern// I mean one released within the last several years (you do not need the absolute latest and greatest shiny).

**Caveat for Internet Explorer:** SugarCube only supports IE9+. So, users of Windows XP (who are limited to IE8) will not be able to play/view stories built with SugarCube with their version of IE. They would either have to use a different browser or upgrade to a less obsolescent version of Windows (Microsoft will end support of Windows XP on April 8, 2014).
